Description – VPN
Design and implement a Virtual Private Network (VPN) that allows two or more hosts to communicate
securely over an untrusted network. Students must use tunneling, encryption, and authentication techniques
to create a working VPN solution.
CS462 Computer Networks
Evaluation Criteria – VPN
% Category Explanation
20 VPN Core Functionality VPN allows for communication
between hosts
20 Encryption and Authentication Communication between hosts
implements strong encryption and
authentication measures (AES,
TLS...)
20 Tunneling and Protocols Packets sent must be properly
encapsulated (UDP, IPv4...)
10 Security Analysis and Testing Tests must be performed to ensure
CIA even after the VPN is attacked
10 Performance and Scalability Compare VPN traffic vs non-VPN
traffic (latency, throughput, RTT)
10 Report & Documentation Report includes diagram,
architecture, test results, description
of the system and a HOW-TO section
to utilize it
10 Final Presentation
CS462 Computer Networks
Deliverables
• Create a formal Project Report that follows the defined report document format (below).
• Presentation of the project will be at the end of November on dates specified by Professor Juan.
Report Document Format (no formal software requirement specification necessary)
Report Cover Page (title, class, group ID, student names, semester, instructor)
Table of Contents (and revision history table)
Section 1 – Organization: present effort of each student in the project. For that you can follow the example
table below.
Version Date Modifier Description
1.0
Section 2 – Objectives and System Specification: a broad description of what you were trying to
accomplish, including a simplified requirement specification section formalizing the
requirements detailed below in the assignment section.
Section 3 – Operation Manual and Analysis
a. Describe how to make the system work given the source code.
b. Make an attempt to provide more formal scheduling analysis of the tasks timing behavior.
Section 5 – Observations and Comments
c. Observations – Did the system behave as expected? Comment on timing behavior of the system.
d. Comments – Comment on your process and experience in developing your solution. What could
you have done better?
Section 6 – Lessons Learned
e. How difficult was it to use the concepts – were you successful?
f. What computer networks concepts were enforced by your execution of this project?
Appendix A – Source Code: modular and well commented
Appendix B – Test Cases: some basic, functional test cases; you can follow example simple format show
below.
Step Action Expected Behavior Pass/Fail
1
2

